# です

1. We'll be looking at an overview of sentence basics. We'll get some sentences down first that you can easily use.

2. We're first going to focus on the word です, which is similar to our is/am/are verb.

# A は B です。

A am/is/are B

1. This is your simple "I am/you are/this is" sentence.

2. A is what you're talking about (a noun), and B is an adjective/noun that describes A.

3. In other words, A is B.

4. **In Japanese, verbs come at the ends of sentences. In this case, it's です**

5. The は is a particle that acts as a topic marker. We'll talk about this a bit later.

# わたし は カオ です。

1. I would use this to say "I am Kao." (my name) (わたし = I)

2. You can swap out B to other nouns or adjectives. This says "I am cute." (かわいい = cute)

3. You can also change the subject/topic without adjusting the grammar! This says "He is cute." (かれ = he)

4. There are no 1st/2nd/3rd person conjugations in Japanese. So the verb's spelling does not change based on the subject.

# わたし は カナダじん じゃないです。

I am not Canadian

1. Want to make it negative? (I am not, he is not, they are not, etc.) Drop です, and add じゃないです .This works for all nouns.

2. Adjectives like かわいい have to change to the negative, but we'll learn that later!

3. Now, you might be looking at the translation and fretting over the different word order in the two sentences.

4. Just keep the A は B です pattern in your head!

# わたし は カオ です。

わたし は にんげん で は ありません。

1. As I noted earlier, the は is a topic marker. Basically, you place it right after whatever you are talking about! It's often the subject of the sentence.

2. Now, there's a trick to reading these. You might remember hearing that は can be read as "wa" in addition to "ha".

3. When the は is used to mark the topic of the sentence, it is pronounced as "wa"!

4. It is also pronounced this way in the negative ではありません (A more polite form of じゃないです.)

5. Tap on the first sentence to listen to it "I am Kao."

6. Now, the second, "I am not a human."

7. You can hear in both that the は are pronounced "wa".

# A は B です。

1. So, just to recap: replace A with a noun, and B with something that describes A!
2. Let's jump back to は. It's a member of the family of particles, which are used to mark specific parts of the sentence.
3. As I noted earlier, は is a topic marker. It's often also the subject of the sentence, but generally marks what you are talking about.
4. Now you have your first sentence pattern! Through the grammar lessons on renshuu, we'll acquire several more basic patterns.
