# “To be”: です 、 いる 、 ある

1. In English, we use the verb ‘to be’ in many ways, including talking about facts (“I am a student”) and talking about existing or locating (“I am in the kitchen”).
2. In Japanese, however, those functions are separated out.
3. As we learned before, **we use です when talking about facts, and there are two verbs to talk about existence and location: いる (an Ichidan verb) and ある (Godan).**

# いる vs ある

1. So what’s the difference between these two verbs?
2. It depends on what the subject is.
3. いる is used when we’re talking about animate objects (people or animals - anything that is alive, can think, and move on its own.)  
4. ある is used for inanimate objects (plants, rocks, computers, and anything else not living).
5. So if you want to say there is a book, you’ll say ほん が あります (notice the particle; more on that in a minute!).
6. But if you want to say there is a dog, you’ll say いぬ が います.
7. Be careful not to mix these two up - you don’t want someone thinking your book has become alive!

# ほん  が  あります 。

1. When we use the verbs いる and ある, there are a few differences from other verbs.
2. **First, the subject is marked with が, rather than は.**
3. This is because these verbs can talk about having something, as well as something existing.
4. So ほん が あります can mean ‘there is a book,’…  

# わたし は ほん が あります。            

1. …or it can mean ‘I have a book.’ In this version of the sentence, you can see that now both は and が are used!
2. Like we mentioned before, は shows the ‘topic’ of the sentence (in this case, you’re talking about yourself), but が shows the ‘subject’ of the verb.
3. Another way to translate this sentence would be “As for me, there is a book,” which sounds silly in English but shows how this concept works!

# テレビ  が  あります 。

1. あります can be used to talk about physical objects that someone owns (‘I have a TV’)…  

# はな  が  あります 。

1. …or that exist somewhere (‘There are flowers’).

# じかん  が  あります  か 。

1. It can also be used to talk about abstract concepts as well (‘Do you have time?’)

# ともだち  が  います 。

とり  が  います 。

1. If you want to talk about humans or animals, however, we will use います.
2. We can use it to talk about people or animals we have in our lives (‘I have a friend’) or that exist somewhere (‘There is a bird’).

# そら  に  とり  が  います 。

1. The other main way in which いる and ある are different from other verbs is when we talk about location.
2. We learned before that we use particle で for a location where an action happens; but when something is existing, there’s no action!
3. **So instead, we use particle に (yes, that’s three different uses for this particle!) to show the location where something or someone exists.**
4. So this sentence would be “There are birds in the sky.”  

# そら  に  くも  が  あります 。

1. And this sentence would be “There are clouds in the sky.” 

# かれ  は  うち  に  テレビ  が  ありません 。

1.  You can also use に for location when showing that someone has (or in this case, doesn’t have) something in a location.
2. Here we have “He doesn’t have a TV at home.”

# いす  の  した  に  ねこ  が  います 。

1. You can also get even more specific with your location.
2. If you want to say “The cat is under the chair,” you will want to add the word for ‘down’ or ‘under’ (した) to your sentence.
3. So now, in your sentence, you will have a reference point (the chair) and a location word (‘up,’ ‘down,’ ‘left,’ ‘right,’ etc), and together this is the location that will be designated with に.
4. Let's look at this in more detail.

# テーブル  の  みぎ

1. ‘To the right of the table’ would look like this.
2. You can also think of ‘the table’s right,’ using の for possession, like we learned before.

# テーブル  の  みぎ  に  いす  が  あります 。

1. Therefore, this sentence would mean, “To the right of the table, there is a chair.”  

# いす  が  テーブル  の  みぎ  に  あります 。

1. You can also swap the subject to the beginning of the sentence, just like you could in English.
2. This way, it would translate more to “The chair is to the right of the table.”  

# おかあさん  が  テーブル  の  みぎ  に  います 。

1. This pattern works the same way with animate objects as well.

2. Now instead of a chair being next to the table, it’s someone’s mom!

3. You might notice there is both an animate and inanimate object in this sentence - so do we use います or あります?

4. All you need to focus on is the subject!

5. If the subject is animate, use います.

6. If the subject is inanimate, use あります.

7. The reference point isn’t important here.

8. Let's recap: いる is used for animate things, while ある is used for inanimate objects.

9. A location + に can be used to mark where something is.

10. Lastly, a reference point + の + direction + に can be used when describing where something is relative to something else!

    