# ている / ています

1. Let’s look at another way to use the て form.
2. Before we talk about the two new ways to use the て form, let’s break down Japanese verbs into a few categories: ‘activity’ verbs, ‘change’ verbs, and ‘existence’ verbs.
3. ‘Activity’ verbs describe an action that can continue for a length of time, for example たべる (to eat), ねる (to sleep), or はなす (to talk).
4. ‘Change’ verbs describe an action that happens fairly instantaneously, for example おきる (to wake up) or あく (to be open, like a door or a store).
5. You can tell if a verb is an activity if you can add a duration to the verb and it makes sense: for example, you can eat for an hour （いちじかんたべます), but you can’t get up for an hour (you’re either awake or you’re not).
6. Now, with おきる (to wake up), you might say `Well, I don't wake up immediately,` or, `it takes me several minutes to fully wake up.`  In Japanese, however, the ている form of this verb (and many others) focus on the change between two states: `yes` (awake), and `no` (not awake).

# たべています

たべていません  

たべていました 

1. If you combine an ‘activity’ verb with いる, you can describe an action in progress.
2. This is like the gerund (“-ing”) form in English, and it is created by combining the て form with the verb いる that we learned earlier.
3. So if you are currently eating, you would say たべています。
4. This can also work in the negative or past tense: if you are not eating, you would just change いる to the negative: たべていません.
5. If you were eating earlier, you can say たべていました。

# まいしゅう  サッカー  を  しています 。

1. You can also use this pattern to describe a habitual action.
2. If you play soccer every week, even if you are not doing it right at this moment, you would use this sentence.

# おちゃ  を  のんでいます 。

1. Or if you’re in the habit of drinking tea, you can use this sentence, even if you aren’t currently drinking it.

# おきています 。

1. You can also combine a ‘change’ verb with いる, to show the result of a change.
2. So this would not describe someone currently waking up, but instead would be saying that someone is awake.
3. They woke up, おきました, and they are still currently awake.

# けっこんしています 。

1. If you got married, you would use the compound verb けっこんする in the same way.
2. You changed from being single to being married, and are still in that state, so you would say the above.
3. This phrase doesn’t mean that you are *getting* married, but that you are *currently* married.

# ともだち  は  うち  に  きています 。

1. If a friend has come to visit you, you would speak of it in the same way.

2. This sentence doesn’t mean that a friend is *coming* to visit, but that they have come to visit and are currently at your home.

3. This ている/ています form is used in many intermediate and advanced grammar patterns, so let's remember this key pattern!

   