# Frequency

1. Let’s talk about frequency! Frequency refers to how often an action occurs.
2. In Japanese, frequency is expressed with an adverb, like よく、たいてい、ときどき、あまり、べつに、and ぜんぜん.
3. There are many more words that can be used to discuss how often you do something, but we’ll start with these for now.

# Positive frequencies  

よく  、 たいてい  、 時々(ときどき)    

1. If you do something fairly often, you will use an adverb like よく (often)、たいてい (usually)、and ときどき (sometimes).
2. These adverbs will often go after the subject of the sentence (or at the beginning of the sentence if there is no subject!) or sometimes just before the verb.
3. Like we’ve learned before, word order in Japanese is fairly fluid!

# 私は   よく   日本語 を   勉強します  。

たいてい   ９時 に   お茶を飲み ます  。

家 で 新聞 を 時々 読みます。

1. So you use this to say that you study Japanese often.
2. Or that you usually drink tea at 9 o'clock.
3. And lastly, that you sometimes read the newspaper at home.
4. We refer to these as positive frequencies because they focus on how often something *is* done.
5. Notice you can add other particles to your sentences, just like always.

# Negative frequencies

あまり、別に、全然

1. If you want to talk about how *in*frequently you do something, you can use phrases like あまり (not much)、べつに (not particularly)、and ぜんぜん (never).
2. When you’re using these types of frequency adverbs, you’re also going to use the negative verb.

# あまり ５時 に 起きません。

私 は 別に 自転車 に 乗りません。

トマト を 全然 食べません。

1. Just like with the positive frequencies, you will often use these adverbs either after the subject/at the beginning of a subjectless sentence, or sometimes just before the verb.
2. This first one says that you don't usually get up at 5 o'clock.
3. While this one says that you don't particularly ride a bike.
4. And lastly, that you never eat tomatos.
5. With these words, the verb is always in the negative form.
6. It remains in the negative even if the action *is* done sometimes, like in the first sentence.
7. The negative verb is simply used to emphasize how rare that action is.
8. These frequency words are essential in transforming your sentences from binary “I do” and “I do not” into a huge range of degrees and frequencies!