# で

1. Oh look, it's our old friend, particle で!
2. We've already learned about particle で: it shows the location where an action happens.
3. But there are actually several other ways to use this particle!
4. In this lesson, we'll look at three other ways that particle で is used.

# (Duration) で

４時 に 本 を 読みました。

４時 間 で 本 を 読みました

1. The first way we'll look at で is talking about time.
2. But wait! You might say, don't we use に for time?
3. **Yes, of course - but in this case, we're talking about a duration of time, instead of an instant.**
4. Take a look at these two sentences: they're almost the same, right?
5. The first sentence, we know, says “I read a book at 4 o'clock.” 
6. The second sentence, however, uses the suffix  間(かん) for duration, and particle で.
7. So instead of “I read a book at 4,” it says, “I read a book in four hours,” showing you how long the action took.

# 一日 で この 宿題 を 終わりたい です

五 年間 で 日本 に 住んでいます。

1. You can also use で with phrases like 一日(いちにち), so this sentence would mean “I want to finish this homework in one day.” 
2. Or you can say “I have lived in Japan for 5 years.” 
3. When we use で in this way, usually we're implying that we're doing the action for ONLY that period of time, and no longer.

# お箸 で 食べます。

1. **Another way we can use particle で is 'by means of,' or 'using'.**
2. If we used the first usage of で (as a location where an action happens) with this sentence, it would mean “I eat at the chopsticks”  That would be pretty odd, right?
3. Instead, で here shows that you use the chopsticks to eat, so this sentence means “I eat WITH chopsticks.” 

# 車 で スーパー に 行きました。

飛行機 で 旅行します。

1. **Another common way you'll see で used in this way is for transportation:**  
2. Like here, you see “I went to the supermarket by car” and “I travel by plane.”  

# テレビ で 映画 を 見ます。

日本語 で 友達 と 話しました。

1. The object being used to do something can be concrete, like a TV: I watch a movie on (using) the TV.
2. Or, you can use something that's not a physical object: I spoke with my friends in (using) Japanese.

#  この 鉛筆 は 木 で できました。 

 チョコレート と バナナ で お菓子 を 作ります。 

1. The last usage of で that we will talk about in this lesson is showing what something is made of.

2. **You will often see this usage of で with verbs like つくる (to make) or できる (which in this sense means 'to be made').**

3. So for example, if a pencil is made out of wood, you would use the first sentence.

4. 

5. And, if you make sweets out of chocolate and bananas, you could say that with the second sentence.

6. There are many ways to use particle で, so I hope you practice some of these new things to expand your understanding of this versatile particle!

   