# Time Expressions

1. Let's talk about time!
2. In earlier lessons, we learned how to say we did an action at a specific time.

#  一時 に 昼ご飯 を 食べます。 

1. For example, “I eat lunch at 1:00.”  
2. This is a very specific instance. But what if we wanted to talk about what we did in a more general sense? Or what we did before or after eating lunch?

# 前に

あとで
時

1. In Japanese, we can use these three phrases to talk about when we do things as a more general concept: 前に (before X), 後で (after X), and 時 (at X time).
2. The phrase まえに can be used to talk about something that happens before something else.

# テスト の 前 に

行く前 に

1. It can be used with a **noun + particle の**, like the example above, “before the test”, **or after the dictionary (casual) form of a verb**, like “before you go.”  
2. These phrases will come at the beginning of a sentence. The rest of your sentence will say what is done BEFORE the event mentioned.

# テスト の 前 に よく 練習しました。

行く 前 に ドア を 閉めて ください 。

1. This could be just a statement of what you WILL do before something else, like studying before a test, or you could ask someone to do something, like shutting the door before leaving.
2. Any time you have one action that happens before another, you can use this phrasing.

# 仕事 の あとで

食べた あとで

1. 後で, or “after,” works similarly. It talks about an event that comes AFTER something else.
2. It essentially works the same way as まえに, being used with both nouns and verbs, but with one difference: because we're talking about one event happening after something else is done, you will use the **casual past tense of a verb**, instead of the present.

# 仕事 の あとで 買い物 を しましょう。

食べた あとで 宿題 を した。

1. Again, just like with まえに, you can make any kind of sentence after this phrase.
2. You can make suggestions, talk about things you will do or did afterwards, make a request, etc.

# 子供 の 時

寒い 時

1. You have probably seen the word とき before, meaning 'time.'  We can also use this word almost like the English word 'when'.
2. Take these two examples: In English, we would say “when I was a child,” or “when it's cold.”  
3. In Japanese, we say “at the time of being a child,” or “at the cold time”.

# 学生 の 時

暑い 時
読む 時
遊んだ 時

1. You can use とき after any part of speech: nouns, adjectives, or various tenses of verbs, as you can see here.
2. These phrases would be talking about when someone was a student, when it's hot, when someone reads, or when someone played.

# 学生 の 時 に 学校 で 昼ご飯 を 食べた。

暑い 時 に 海 で 泳ぎたい。
この 本 を 読む 時、 ノート を 書いて ください。

1. (Phrase)時 can be followed by particle に, but it doesn't have to be. It's a stylistic choice.
2. You can make a wide variety of sentences in this way, and they all would use the phrase “when X...”  
3. (Noun)の時 means “When (someone or something was) X...”  
4. Like in the sentence here “When I was a student, I ate lunch at school.”
5.  (Adjective)時 means “When (it's) X.”  
6. So in this sentence, we have “When it's hot, I want to swim in the ocean.”  
7. (Casual present tense verb)時 means “When (someone) does X.” 
8. Here, we have “When you read this book, please take notes.”  

# 日本 に 行った 時、桜 の 花を見ました。

遊んでいる 時 に 気をつけて ください。

1. (Casual past tense verb)時 means “When (someone) did X.” 
2. Like here, where we're saying “When I went to Japan, I saw the cherry blossoms.”  
3. (Verb in ている form)時 means “When (someone) is doing X.”  
4. Like in this sentence, “When you're playing, please be careful.”  
5. In English, you might switch the sentence around and say “Please be careful when you're playing,” but in Japanese, we always order sentences in the same way.
6. Notice that you can use any kind of verb tense or formality in the sentences that follow all three of these patterns (前に、後で、時), but **if there's a verb before them, it has to be casual.**

# ~ 中

1. When you're talking about a duration of time, and you want to emphasize the length of time you do something, you can use the suffix じゅう.

# 一日中 寝ました。 

1. If you slept all day, for example, you could say this.
2. Using ~じゅう here is like the English word 'throughout': “I slept throughout the day”  
3. Notice that with じゅう、you don't need any additional particles to mark your time, but you can use particle に if you want.

# 今週中に 仕事 を 終わって ください。 

1. So if you want someone to finish their work this week, you can emphasize 'this week' by using に after じゅう.
2. You can also use the suffix じゅう to talk about places, also like the English word 'throughout'.

#  日本中 に 雨 が 降りました。 

1. So in this case, you can talk about rain falling throughout (the entire country of) Japan.
2. There are other ways of showing time, but these four patterns are by far the most common.