1. Questions with か  Let’s talk about asking and answering questions!
2. Making a sentence into a yes/no question is very easy: you just add the particle か to the end of your sentence!
3. You don’t even need to add a question mark, but you can if you want to.

# ねこ  は  かわいい  です 。

ねこ  は  かわいい  です  か 。

1. The first sentence reads “The cat is cute.”
2. By adding か to the end of the sentence, you turn it into the question “Is the cat cute?”  
3. A yes/no question like this can be answered in two ways.
4. Yes is はい、そうです。or a more casual はい。
5. No is いいえ、そうじゃないです。
6. or casually as いいえ。

# なに / どこ / だれ     

1. If you want to ask a question that would give you more information, you will need a question word. Question words in English are ‘who, what, when, where, why, how’.
2. Let’s take a look at three of these words in Japanese: **なん (what, also written as なに), どこ (where), and だれ (who).**
3. In English, these words often come at the beginning of the sentence. That’s not always the case in Japanese, though!
4. **The subject (what you are asking about) will come first instead**, just like in the sentences we’ve already learned.

# これ  は  なん  です  か 。

1. This first sentence reads “What is this?” 
2. Were you to translate it in the same order, it'd be "This is what?"  

# おてあらい は どこ です か。            

This one reads “Where is the bathroom?”  

# せんせい は だれ です か。            

1. And lastly, “Who is the teacher?” 
2.  Notice the subjects (‘this,’ ‘bathroom,’ and ‘teacher’) come first, and the question words come after the は.

# なに  が  すき  です  か 。

1. Sometimes, you might need to have the question word be the subject of a sentence!
2. Let’s look at the special adjectives we learned before: すき/きらい/ほしい.
3. If you want to ask someone ‘what do you like?’ you will follow the same pattern as we learned before with these adjectives, using なに instead of an object.

# なに  が  ほしい  です  か 。

1. The same will be true for asking ‘what do you want?’  

# おちゃ  が  ほしい  です 。

1. You can answer the question using the same pattern we learned before.

# どんな  スポーツ  が  すき  です  か 。

1. You might also want to ask “what KIND of things do you like/dislike?” 
2. For this kind of question, you will use the question word どんな (what kind of) before the topic you are asking about (colors, foods, sports, etc).
3. This question, then, would be asking “what kinds of sports do you like?”
4. These basic question styles can really break open your conversations, so do give them a try!