# Verbs

1. You’re ready to branch out into conjugating and using other verbs!
2. Before we look at the rules, though, let’s talk about Japanese verbs in general.

# Verb Politeness   

1.  Japanese verbs have differing levels of politeness. There are two main ones: polite, and plain/casual.
2. These are used the majority of the time, but we’re going to focus on the polite form today.
3. You can’t go wrong with using polite forms, and you should stay with them until you are comfortable with casual verbs.
4. Good news! Unlike English, verbs do not change based on the subject. So “I”, “he”, “you”, etc. all use the same verb.
5. There are only 2 irregular verbs in the whole language! All other verbs follow one of two patterns.

# Verb stems

1.  Verb stems are a chunk of the verb that are used in various verb conjugations.
2. The rules for verb stems depend on what type of verb it is, and this is most easily identified by looking at the last character of the verb.
3. You do not need to remember all of these now! You’ll see them again in your mastery schedule.
4. Additionally, you can study them under Resources > Community Lists > Grammar.

# たべ る → たべ

1. There are three kinds of verbs: Ichidan (or ‘1-step’), Godan (‘5-step’), and irregular. The above, たべる, is an example of Ichidan.
2. The dictionary form always ends in る (but unfortunately, **not all verbs that end in る are Ichidan**).
3. They are called ‘1-step’ because it takes just one step to adjust the verb before conjugating.

# かく → かき

1. かく (to write) is an example of a Godan verb. If a verb doesn’t end in る, it’s Godan. 

1. They are called 5-step because they use all 5 ‘steps’ (vowels) during conjugation.
2. For verb stems, though, we just need one!

# か  き  く  け  こ 

1.  Take the last character (く, with the 'u' sound) and change it to き (with the 'i' sound).

# あう → あい

1. That means verbs ending in う (u) change to い (i).

# もつ → もち

1. While ones with つ (tsu) change to ち (chi).

# き る → きり

1. As I noted earlier, there are Godan る (change る to り) verbs and Ichidan る (drop the る) verbs.
2. Here, きる (to cut) is an example of a Godan る verb.
3. Unfortunately, there is no exact rule to remember which is which. You’ll just pick it up as you study them.

# す る → し

く る → き

1. There are only two irregular verbs: する (to do), and くる (to come).
2. The verb stem of する is し, and the verb stem of くる is き.

# Verb stem + ます

1. The first form is the “ます”-form, or the polite, non-past form.
2. **We say “non-past” because it can be used for present or future situations.**
3. All you have to do is take the verb stem we learned before and add ます to it.

# たべる → たべます (Ichidan)

1.  This would be (I/he/they/etc) eat/eats.

# いれる → いれます (Ichidan)

1. This is (I/he/she) put/puts in.

# かく → かきます (Godan)

1. And this is write/writes.

# あう → あいます (Godan) 

1. This is meet/meets.

# する → します (irregular)

1. This is do/does.

# くる → きます (irregular) 

1. Lastly, this is come/comes.

# Verb stem + ません

1. Formed the same way, ません is used to show a polite, negative verb.

# たべる → たべません (Ichidan)

1. This would be (I/he/they/etc) don’t/doesn’t eat.

# かく → かきません (Godan)

And this is don’t/doesn’t write.

# する → しません (irregular) 

1. Lastly, this is don't/doesn't.

# わたし  は  たべます 。

1. Let’s take our AはBです sentence and swap out です for our new verbs.
2. This would be “I eat.”  

# かれ  は  かきます 。

1. And this is “He writes.”  
2. We’ll get to adding things like direct objects, locations, etc., in the next lesson!
3. I know this seems like a lot, but these two verb tenses will take us a long way.
4. As I mentioned before, in addition to your mastery schedule, check out the “Verb Conjugation” quizzes under Resources > Community Lists > Grammar.

