# Particles

1. We’ve talked about a few particles so far (は、の、が、か), but let’s add a few more so we can make more interesting sentences!
2. First: what are particles? Particles are small (one or two characters) words that don’t have any meaning by themselves. Instead, they point out what function the noun before it has in a sentence.
3. In English, we usually use word order to show what function a word has in a sentence: for example, “The mouse eats the cheese” is a VERY different sentence than “the cheese eats the mouse!” 

# ネズミ  は  チーズ  を  たべます。

1. In Japanese, the word order is not as important: **just as long as the verb comes at the end and each noun is accompanied by its particle**. This would be like saying “Mouse (subject) cheese (object) eats.”

# を

1. The first particle we will look at is particle を (pronounced ‘o’). **を tells us the direct object of a verb**. を is for Object: should be easy to remember!
2. **The direct object of the verb shows what the verb is done to: what is eaten, played, sung, etc.**

# みず を のみます

さかな を たべます。

バス を まちます。

1. Take a look at these three sentences. Someone is drinking water, eating fish, and waiting for a bus. If you already know who is doing the action, you can leave your sentences just like this.

# わたし は みず を のみます。

ねこ は さかな を たべます。

カオ は バス を まちます。

1. Or, you can add a subject to make it more clear.

# なに を たべます か。            

1. If you want to ask a question, you will replace your object with the question word なに that we learned earlier.

# で

1. The next particle we will look at is で. **This shows us where an action happens.**
2. It works a little like the word “at” in English - “at the park, at a restaurant” etc, but can be used more broadly.

# うち で  のみます。

レストラン で たべます。

まち で  まちます。

1. You can use で by itself with a verb…  

# うち で みず を のみます。

さかな を レストラン で たべます。

カオ は まち で バス を まちます。

1. ...or you can use it in combination with particles like は or を that we saw a moment ago.
2. Notice that you can put the place and particle で before or after the object and を - it’s up to you, depending on which part you feel is more important in the sentence.
3. If you want to emphasize the place, put that first. If you think the object is more important, put that first, instead.
4. If there is a subject in your sentence, that will usually be the first part of your sentence.

# どこ で ねますか。            

1. You can also use particle で when asking questions about locations.

# に

1. Next up is particle に. **に can show us the time when an action happens.**            

# いちじ  に  

ごがつ  に  

どようび  に

1. You will use に with ‘concrete’ time phrases, like the  above: “at one o’clock,” “in May,” or “on Saturday.” These are time  phrases that don’t change depending on where YOU are in time.
2.  You will not use に, or any particle, for that matter, with  ‘relative’ time phrases, like きょう [today], らいしゅう [next week], or せんげつ  [last month], that change depending on where in time you are.
3. Tomorrow, today will be yesterday! Don’t worry too much about that, though!            

# じゅうじ に ねます。

いちがつ に もち を たべます。

わたし は きんようび に てがみ を かきます。

1. You can use に in combination with any and all of the other particles we have already learned.            
2. This noun and particle combination tends to come towards  the beginning of the sentence, either before or after the subject (if  there is one). Time tends to be pretty important! 
3. To recap, particles are like giant signs that point to  the word before them and tell you the purpose of that word.       
4. Most particles have multiple usages, but let's take them a little bit at a time.            
