# に/へ
1. Let’s take a look at two more particles and some new verbs to talk about going places.
2. Take a look at these three verbs: いく(to go), かえる (to return/go home), and くる (to come).
3. The first two are both Godan verbs, and くる is one of the two irregular verbs we learned earlier, so these will become いきます, かえります, and きます, respectively.
4. These verbs will help us get started talking about where we go!
5. **When we talk about moving from one place to another, we do not use particle で, since that refers to one place where an action happens, like “at”. You don’t go “at” a place!**
6. Instead, we can use one of two particles: the first is に.
7. Yes, it’s the same particle we already used to talk about time - に has multiple uses!
8. They shouldn’t be hard to differentiate, though; one will have a time before it, the other will have a place!
9. You can remember the difference with に compared to で because you go TO a place, and に also means ‘two’ in Japanese!
10. The other particle you can use is へ (pronounced ‘e’).

# うち に かえります。

みせ へ いきます。

1. Both of these particles are used to indicate the direction or goal of travel.       
2. に and へ can be used interchangeably(可互换地), except for(除了) one  instance: if you are going IN THE DIRECTION of a place, but you are not  going to arrive there.     
3. **For example, you can travel east, but you cannot  arrive in ‘east’. In this kind of case, you can only use particle へ.**      

# みせ に いきます。                                 

1. When we put these all together, we get sentences like the above: (I) go to the store.

# くじ に みせ に いきます。                

1. We can add our other usage of に as well, to talk about what time we go somewhere.

# くじ に おてら に いきます。                

1. You can go to the temple, to school, anywhere else you would like using this phrase.

# くじ に おてら に きます。

1. The verb くる (to come) will work in the same way.

# かれ は みせ に いきます。

かれ は みせ に きます。

1. One thing to note about いく and くる. They are always used in reference to where the speaker is.
2. So look at the first sentence, 'He goes to the store.' Since the verb go is in reference to the speaker (you), think of this as 'He goes (away from you) to the store.'  
3. The second sentence, 'He comes to the store', implies that you (the speaker) are at the store already. In other words, 'He comes (toward you) to the store.

# アメリカ  に  かえります 。

1. When we use かえります, we use it to return home, or to somewhere like home.
2. So if you live in the US and travel abroad, when you return to the US you can use this sentence.
3. If the US is NOT a ‘home’ to you, however, but you traveled there again, you would not use かえる.
4. **You can use かえる with places like your home, your work, your school, or anywhere else you spend a lot of time that could consider to be like a ‘home’ to you.**
5. Have you noticed just how many particles you've studied already? You're doing great! Practicing on renshuu will help lock those in.
